## Introduction.

The goal is to determine some things in the following threads. This is not a rigorous standard of logic or reasoning.

First I wonder about myself and what I want, and I think I want to separate intellectual motivation from emotional motivation, which is not to say that these are the only forms of motivation, but rather two that I have some ideas around. Intellectual motivation should be classified as the things which are somehow relating to being motivated by reason— or maybe better defined in the negative. I am inclined to put the things which do not cause any immediate emotional reaction (endorphins? not in this economy) into this category. Then emotional motivation is more straightforward— things which make me feel ‘happier’. I do not presently understand the term happiness but it is convenient.

I have no idea why I am writing in this tone. Perhaps I am pretending to be cleverer than I actually am, which is to be expected of me. Oh well.

---

## Act I:

### 1: Intellectual Motivation

I think of intellectual motivation as the vague motivations behind why I like to study and learn things. I have entertained the idea that this is really just an ego boost— an attempt to make myself feel ‘intellectual’ and thus ‘superior’, but I think I derive some legitimate ‘benefits’ from learning things that cannot be explained fully by this. Or maybe I am just being rather nice to myself today, which is a pleasant-ish surprise. 

So intellectual motivation is motivating me to learn things. I will stick with math as this is the most significant. (Aside — theoretically all fields I enjoy learning about? Learning things is nice, or I like hearing information. Or perhaps I enjoy hearing someone talk about something of interest to them.) Last week I spoke with my dad about why I liked math— specifically I don’t really enjoy applied math, and I really like more pure math. It came down to the fact that I liked being able to prove from scratch everything I was working with. Also a reason I think physics and economics were not so much for me — experimental/observed results do not have a pleasant effect on me. I think they make me feel personally uneasy? Or maybe I’ve just pulled a Karl Popper and said no to induction.

That’s not quite it. But I guess what I mean to say is I do not like inductively determined things, which is not to say I refuse to accept those results. But it’s more pleasant when things are absolutely true. Which brings me back to intellectual motivation— I think I am motivated to do math because it gives me things that are absolutely true. I think it makes me feel like the (world?) makes more sense. I feel like I am on steady ground and this is an important feeling to me. When I am lucky then I feel like I can see all the things that follow from what I know; everything seems to make sense in these odd glimpses. (See: Awestruck Silence, or the Precipice Passage)

I think it gives me a sense of relief, to feel as though I am on steady ground. So the intellectual motivation is, essentially, “it makes me no longer feel uneasy”; it’s an avoidance of a negative type of motivation? Which is not to say it not pleasant to know or understand but it is much more passive than ‘excitement’.

So then there are problems. Namely parental. I do not present as ‘excited about math’ because that is not really how I feel about it. I admire it! I think it is quite cool. But I am not doing it out of excitement but rather because it makes me feel relieved and better. So I think I do not read as ‘excited’ and consequently my parents have come to believe that I do not “really like” math. And maybe that is true but they have misunderstood this to mean that “I gain nothing from it” which is quite false.

The second problem of course is that the system of evaluation is rather badly suited to my capabilities, but I think I have known this for a while. But it is frustrating to be able to solve problems on my own with reasonable ease and yet fall behind because I cannot do so in an exam. And it is frustrating because I cannot understand why examination is a good method to determine aptitude beyond very basic competence. So yes, I think my dad may have been on to something when he said that “you love math, but math does not love you back.”

The sub-problem here, then, is that I have yet to reach an actual limit on what I can do that would properly convince me I would never succeed in this area. I imagine I would not have what it takes to be a math academic, but because the thing stopping me thus far has been exams, which I do not believe to be a valid form of assessment, consequently I have some delusions that I might actually be perfectly alright. This is a generally recurring arrogance problem for me; if I do not have concrete proof by standards I accept that I cannot do something, I will not believe it impossible.

So in this category, I would place motivations for learning. Adjacent is probably something like ‘logical motivation’, which is ‘things aimed at making my life materially better’. This is adjacent to intellectual motivation because I think of it also as an avoidance of a negative, but it is also like evening out the ground so that I can build decent things on top of that. Of course this all relies on me surviving long enough to build things on top of that but that is really just a risk I will always be having to take, and it is not as if short term hollow happiness will make me any more survival-likely. Risk of non-survival should probably just be treated as a constant random in the background which may occasionally be exacerbated by stress. Speaking of which those things which exacerbate will probably show up soon.

---

### 2: The Core Emotional Motivation

So these are the things which make me feel some degree of good. Time to abandon the semiformal tone? This section will be embarrassingly self-pitying and pathetic. Feel free to skip it.

My first thought was that “well, this doesn’t include simple things like painting my nails or getting my hair done”, but then I realized that all feeds into vanity, and all that feeds back into my main point for this section. Speaking of which, I should get to the main point.

I think I can trace most of my emotional motivations back to some rather pathetic sources: some embarrassing desire to be wanted. The vanity point is boring but quick — if I’m [physically appealing] then maybe people will want to be around me more. The fashion point is a little less quick — I was looking at some old messages. “I feel like anika has at least a little bit of gender hell” (Kieran, 2021). Look at me citing things, how fancy! But I think it’s more like having the flexibility to alter how I am perceived at any given moment, because surely if I can be every kind of person then people will like at least one of the things I am. I think this has occasionally blurred the gender lines a little but I do not care to go through the social and emotional efforts of exploring that route so I will simply not. There is probably also some factor of how I have been socialized/raised and some resentment of gender roles or whatever. This is less interesting to me right now though.

Anyways the second core point which is related is “I feel lonely very often”. I think the combination of these two main ideas is “I do not feel wanted but desperately wish to be”. Going down this thread I do think it’s probably unfortunately correct.

*“Do I believe my presence is a burden on people?”*

Yes, in all circumstances. Maybe I can amuse/entertain people to make it partially worthwhile but I think that every instant I spent with someone is an imposition. One can see how this may be a bad framework. I do not believe people want me around. Consequently I think I try to do material favors for people as some motivator to keep them around? Cooking, mainly. Something to justify my burden on their time?

So consequently I do not trust that people may enjoy my existence at all. Which I think leads to both feeling lonely/isolated often, as well as the constant need to get reassurances. The downside is the latter blurs into compliment-fishing which is a bad trait to have.

I think a large majority of my feelings can be traced back to the idea of being wanted. It seems that the only way for me to feel ‘wanted’, however, requires some irrefutable proof that someone wants to be in my presence. Which leads to the next section.

---

### 3. The Art of Feeling Wanted

This one is still self-pitying, feel free to skip. It’s rather pathetic.

I think about my relationship with my parents a lot. Notably I am rather annoyed when anyone tells me (in response to me saying I am obligated to do something because my parents have told me to) that “it’s your life, not theirs.” Part of this might be cultural norms and such. Setting that aside for a moment, I think it also the fact that I do believe my parents are unequivocally on my side. Maybe even love me?

Whether out of parental obligation or some other sense, they have made it clear they are invested in my rough good, even if we disagree on the nature of this. In this sense I feel ‘wanted’; or rather they are ‘forced to want me’. So consequently disobeying them might cause them to view me differently, and then I might lose the only source of ‘being wanted’ that I legitimately believe i have in my life.

(Aside — the Incident of Eleventh Grade has been a complication in this matter. I do not really know what to do with this so I have attempted to forget the events altogether. But I can attribute it to a misunderstanding of the stakes/I can still believe I was ‘wanted’.)

The relationship with each parent is a bit different. I think I appreciate my dad for the fact that he tries to treat me like an adult, more-or-less. Or rather he accepts the kind of person I am in this moment. And I resent my mother because she treats me like a child, and always wants me to go back to how I was as a very young child. Naturally I understand why the latter occurs but it is immensely frustrating because I am very obviously not a child anymore. I think this is why we cannot go more than a day without arguing and I hope this will change. But I suspect my mother needs a cold shock of not seeing me for some time, to get used to not having ‘a child’ as me, but rather a functional-ish adult with a life outside of hers. I think my dad at least makes decent efforts to be rational, but it has become clear he is not very emotional and this can be a problem because I am.

I am grateful they get along with each other because I think it has been a good model for what a functional partnership looks like. And both have emphasized the importance of finding a good partner. But this now leads to the next part.

---

### 4. A Tangent on Attraction

Or, why I seem so obsessed with the idea of love. More embarrassment to follow. Why did I bother with all this I swear only the first section is remotely worthwhile. Oh well. This is the weird section which I recommend skipping.

I think parents/other factors have led me to conclude that [romantic love] is the one way for me to guarantee I am actually ‘wanted’; one does not enter a relationship in the long-run out of obligation, I think. I hope. So consequently this is a thing I want because I think it will fix this underlying issue. The question is: am I going to end up placing my entire self worth on the love of one person, then, or will this actually give me the ability to perceive all my other relationships through a more secure lens?

I think I generally accept the split-attraction model. Then I’ve theorized a lot about which labels feel accurate to me. I don’t like the idea of pushing people into labels but they are convenient for explaining how I feel, so I like figuring out which ones work for me because they make me feel more grounded. So over time I’ve used a few different ones which seem accurate to how I feel.

Step 1 - Splitting the Attraction. I think it makes sense to me that sexual and romantic attraction are separate concepts. Cursed bit incoming. I regularly question if I actually feel the former at all, largely because I find a lot of the components of sex to be theoretically repulsive and unpleasant-sounding, though I suspect this is actually more of a hygiene issue than an objection to sex. All of this is largely theoretical of course. There are some aspects which seem… interesting or compelling but I think that has more to do with the dynamics that may be at play rather than the actual things that are physically happening. In the past* this has been confused for sex-favored ace; more likely sex-repulsed allo (thanks, Vic, for the term!). 

I do also enjoy physical contact in general though — it’s reassuring! But this is more of a holding hands/leaning on shoulders type of thing. I have contemplated the purchase of a weighted blanket because that is also nice. I used to ‘fidget with people’, ask someone if I can borrow a strand of their hair or their hand and just. Move the parts around and this was a nice thing to do. However it is probably no longer socially acceptable to do this which is mildly unfortunate.

Anyways the conclusion from this seems to be— I might experience sexual attraction, but perhaps really only as a means for other tangentially related things? Tangential is also ‘physical attraction’ which is just ‘who do I find attractive’ which does not equate to ‘I would like to do things with this person’. 

Step 2 - Whomst. It has become quite clear to me I think I only experience ‘physical attraction’ towards women. I do not think I have consciously thought about ‘sexual attraction’ because that feels odd. But I think that requires physical attraction as a prerequisite.

Step 3 - Romantic Attraction. I do not fully understand this concept. I have occasionally theorized that I am aro. I do not think this is true. I think friendship is a prerequisite to any kind of attraction I experience, though. Sometimes I apparently also like the feeling of liking someone, then stop liking them the moment it is reciprocated. This is a bit of an interesting point — it feels undeserved and so I dislike being showered with affection in this way, I think. Maybe?

Step 4 - I’m giving up on steps. Anyways in theory I could experience romantic attraction to men. I do not think this has occurred in practice, which is perhaps evidence that I do not experience it because I have had plenty of people whom one might think would qualify? But I have also not entertained this possibility because in my mind I would rather just have a relationship which contains both romantic and physical attraction, so why should I seek out those which would not contain one component.

Intellectual attraction (Kieran) is a different thing. I will not discuss it here. Anyways the reason all this is necessary is coming back to the idea of being wanted— I am willing to go to far lengths to be ‘wanted’. So consequently I want a romantic relationship because in my mind this means someone has gone out of their way to choose to be around me. Casual dating scares me because that would seemingly break this idea/treats relationships more like casual friendships, which would then break the ‘I am definitively wanted’ aspect of things.

Now this leads to a problem which occurs in relationships, but is also more general: boundaries. I am bad at boundaries. In the most atrocious and cursed culmination of the points on all the most silly and vapid things I can imagine (this part is unpleasant and boring so feel free to skip). If I am willing to do things other people want to do, then maybe they’ll want to be around me for longer, so I tend to ignore my boundaries. Physical attraction takes a really weird and bad twist here of ‘if I am attractive to someone then they might want me so I need to keep being wanted’. This turns into ‘I must be as physically appealing as possible’, and the much worse ‘I will agree to do whatever someone else wants’. Combined with the fact that I think my presence is generally a burden, this has occasionally turned into ‘the only thing that can make my presence around someone not a burden is if they find me physically attractive’. This could have turned out a lot worse but fortunately the consequences of these thoughts have just been conducted when said other person was not physically present, and so it was just a long stream of messages that are quite. Uncomfortable.

So this is a problem which needs solving because now there is the danger that if I enter another relationship, I will let things like this happen again.

Exiting the unpleasant tangent — I have long resented the idea of romantic love being placed on a pedestal even though I do so myself? But I think this is an instance of ‘unfortunately I am built in a way that makes me perceive being wanted weirdly, I still think the value of a good platonic relationship is absolutely comparable to the value of a good romantic relationship’. 

---

### 5. Miscellanea, or, How Did I Get So Off-Topic

In sum, the point is that I can trace a lot of what I think/feel to the ‘wanting to be wanted’ point, and I think this is a point of insecurity I should address in order to become a more functional person with more functional relationships. In its current state I think I become too attached to anyone who pays me a slight bit of attention, and it seems as though I cannot do without attention. But I fundamentally believe I am not owed this attention. So I should learn to be functional under my own beliefs.

And it seems that intellectual motivation alone cannot fill the gap that emotional motivation creates, because intellectual motivation is an ‘avoidance of negative’ and not an inherent positive.

I have considered ‘self-improvement for my own sake’ as an outlet but these tend to feed back into vanity. I should learn to do things because they make me feel good and no other reason. I am worried about the summer because I get sad during the summer but I hope that work will give me something to do.

I think the years of ‘not letting myself experience emotions’ have led to them being more heightened now than they should be. So I suspect this is contributing to the extremes of how I feel about things. And maybe to tie in intellectual and emotional motivation— it’s clear that I like standing on steady ground. I guess what I really want is to feel like I am on steady, rigorously-proven ground when it comes to people. And I don’t think that’s entirely reasonable.

Still, perhaps instead I should think how lucky I am to have known people who have caused me to re-evaluate my entire perception of attachment; I think it is well beyond time I try and perceive attachment in a healthier manner.

And I also think that thoughts are somewhat like habits; what I get used to is difficult to change. (Experimentally - the Audrey self-deprecation ban legitimately helped). I think this will be a difficult issue to fix fundamentally, but perhaps I can ease it through practice, somehow.

---

### 6. The One Where I Might Be Anti-Induction

I do not think I am exactly ‘anti-induction’. I do not reject all the conclusions it brings. But I think that I have a clear emotional preference for non-induction; this of course excludes mathematical induction. What this really means is that I find myself on uneasy ground when I cannot prove an absolute truth, and I do not do well with this kind of uncertainty.

So this does not necessarily apply to external things, but it does apply to how I think of things in relation to myself. In some sense ‘deciphering myself’ is a terrible task. I feel assured building things from first principles— thanks, Raj. But knowing myself is like a reverse version of this; I observe the interactions I make and slowly trace it back to the fundamental ideas in my head. This would be a terrible endeavour if not for the fact that I can ‘verify’ correctness; I do think I can tell when I have correctly explained something about myself in its entirety. So I am stuck assembling myself in reverse; I am hunting for my base case, and only then can I begin to conclude.

So in this sense I should not say I am anti-generalizations. But rather I am not at the stage where I can make generalizations, this can occur only once I have found my own first principles. Yet the problem is that realistically I will not find these, so then it must be impossible for me to generalize. So I do not believe I should generalize, then, more so out of the fear of uneasiness which they bring me. I am too afraid to be wrong nowadays and I wish that I was not, but I have been afraid of this thing for seven years and have not been the same since I learned this fear.

The consequence is that this leaves me in a position where I do not learn my lesson well; I do not take proper note of patterns, and I shrug off instances. I worry that I fail to learn from prior actions. 

An additional consequence is something along the lines of ‘I lack convictions’; I do not believe things strongly enough to stand by them. This is for two reasons, I think. The first is just that I do not think stubbornly holding my position is an effective way to convince anyone of anything, so if my aim is to persuade someone I will attempt to twist their position into mine. I am rather spineless. But the second reason seems to be this: I have some hope— not belief —that there is some convenient mathematical expression for everything, that there is something rigorous and all-encompassing that can be proven. From this hope, then, I believe that since this is rigorous and derivable, that given the right steps no one should be able to deny this thing, and consequently: disagreement does not actually exist, and results only from misunderstanding of positions. This idea is pretty ridiculous, and I do not know if I actually believe it, but it seems I want to believe it, and so in accordance with what I want I have no convictions, because I do not think I have stumbled upon this great and rigorous thing. So anything which is not that must be incomplete in some way— and inductively derived, somehow. Thus I feel no need to strongly believe anything which has not been proven with the rigor of (insert mathematical theorem here). I think my mother and I are very different in this manner.

The consequence of that is I seem to bear a faint dislike for people who do have strong convictions; it strikes me as silly, but likely I strike such individuals as silly. And I think I am silly for passing judgement when I could easily be wrong, so I try and avoid it. I have a sort of workaround.

---

### 7. Self-Command

The workaround in question is something like self-command. What I can do is tell myself to obey certain commands temporarily. A bit like a bandage, I guess. ‘I do not know what should go here, so I am going to treat the symptoms’ is perhaps more accurate. So I can treat the symptoms of my actions, if I do not have a general principle for what is right or wrong, then I can learn from the symptoms of individual actions. But because I lack a general principle, then I do not like to use self-command more than is strictly necessary to be a decent person to the people around me. The standard for this is admittedly ambiguous; I think it functions along the lines of: so long as I do not believe I am treating the underlying cause, only the symptoms, and the symptoms are ones which need to be treated, then I can use this thing.

Self-command is an odd thing to think of because I do not think that I have particularly remarkable levels of self-control; if anything I lack it severely. But I think what I have is some ability to tightly regulate something in the thoughts-to-output connection. I can keep my thoughts silent easily if needed. (I recognize this may seem implausible given that I do not ever shut the fuck up. But also if I was told to shut the fuck up, I think I certainly would.)

Similarly self-command has allowed me to take almost no offense at things. The psychological evaluation suggests that I am best when I receive information directly, and I do not take offense at being told things directly even if they may seem unpleasant. I am glad to know things. But of course I say nothing directly so I am not exactly setting a particularly good example in this regard, but this is in part because I am rarely bothered to the point where I wish to say something, and of course because I do not like to say things of this nature.

So yes, I may lack self-control quite terribly when it comes to self-regulation of my various activities, but I can keep a tight leash on many of my thoughts. I do not allow myself to think many things and I think this has occasionally been for the better.

---

### 8. Competition

This is a special case of self-command. The particular command given here is something to do with not permitting myself to engage too much in competition. First I will sort out what the details of this mean.

The details are really just as follows: if I find myself engaging in some sort of competitive activity, particularly with people I care about, I will stop. Or, where possible I will attempt to withdraw from any competitive nature surrounding it. I do not wish to compete with people I care for on anything, otherwise this will end poorly. I have withdrawn from competition where possible in general, too; I do not enjoy the scrutiny of my performance in general, but it is easier when I do not care about who is perceiving me.

But this also applies to thoughts; I will not allow myself to compare myself to others— and to aid this, avoid comparing others to others to some degree. I can compare myself or others to some vague ‘average person’, but that is it. And this is because I have too much of an arrogant tendency, so the only way to keep it under control is to refuse to indulge it. (Some exceptions apply, usually in humorous contexts. Always remain committed to the bit.)

The reason for this behavior is not so much because I am not competitive, but rather because I am too competitive, arguably more than my skill level in anything has earned. But I become unpleasant as a result; I am a worse person when I let this blind me, so instead I find it safer to withdraw entirely. The issue with this is that I now find myself unable to engage in friendly competition and I think this makes me a bad companion for others. Apparently my ego cannot handle the slightest bruising.

The related point is that I am overly defensive, hate being wrong, and have absolutely zero convictions (see above). So I do not like to argue about my positions— I get worked up, I become unreasonable, I forget how to think well and properly. This has made me a difficult person to be around for some relatives and friends who enjoy this kind of thing very much— in a lighthearted manner. This is not to say I cannot handle being questioned. But there is something about how questions can be conveyed, I guess.

---

### 9. Self-Loathing Is Unproductive(ish)

A thought: all the self-loathing in the world can’t undo what you’ve done, so you may as well get the fuck up and do something decent next.

I am deeply afraid of being wrong. I have convinced myself that I will feel less shattered when I am wrong if I am prepared. I train myself to anticipate the worst, so that I will never be negatively surprised, but in the process have created a powerful sense of self-loathing and the idea that I can never be right, because I am too used to preparing myself for being wrong.

Some causes: I hate being wrong, particularly when people expect things from me or are watching me. It’s terrible. I don’t like being afraid of being wrong because it has stopped me from doing things I enjoy and has probably also stopped me from learning things and becoming better. Wrong is adjacent to losing; that functions similarly.

I think the measured response is something along these lines: I can, reasonably, avoid things where I may have to be wrong or lose around others, when these are people who will fault me for it. It is okay to not want to feel bad in this way. But I should learn to graciously accept the rest— not make random excuses (even if they may be true) and such. Sometimes I am just wrong. (There’s something odd about words where phrasing it so directly feels like dodging it in some way. I don’t know what to do about it.)

Some reminders: people don’t seem to dislike me entirely; I have a surprising number of friends who seem to think adequately of me; I am not inherently malicious. It seems ridiculous that without intentional manipulation I might have persuaded various people to befriend me in this manner. Instead I attribute this to doing things which may be considered nice, easily. Maybe I should consider the fact that just because things come easily to me does not mean they are worthless. But I should not assign too much value to them either.

---

### 10. The Ending of All Things

Yet again I have returned to the need to apologize for existing. The idea that I must be interesting to be acceptable has returned in full force. Yet also the idea of responsibility comes to mind. Consulting external sources it seems that I have invented an idea that should not be here and yet I cannot help but feel intentionally manipulative.

But worst of all you have come to know, that in my heart of hearts I am incomprehensible. That some years ago I took some underlying feeling and ran with it, without ever bothering to question its principle, and it is on this flawed foundation that I have built everything wrong. So now you understand what kind of thing I am, and perhaps you have concluded from this that you cannot understand me, because I obey neither rhyme nor reason. And for this I am truly sorry.

I think I have deteriorated. I think this is why my friendships never last as long as I want them to, or inevitably shallow and fade. There is inevitably a point of me where I have nothing interesting to say or do, or that I cannot be understood properly. Then there comes the point where sending a simple ‘how are you’ becomes a terrifying heart-racing thing. And then ends are left loose and then untied altogether and eventually I—

I stop trying. And then it becomes apparent that my company was never wanted in the first place and I should have known this thing but I never seem to learn my damn lesson from these things. And when I stop asking, answers stop coming, and that’s. That’s it. Nothing more is ever said.

Maybe this is how all the best things of mine are meant to end. I overstay my welcome— then I wonder if I ever was welcome or if I always demanded entrance without care —and finally, finally take my leave. It feels like every friendship has a ticking clock. From the moment I open my heart I know that I am accelerating things towards this ending; if I had stayed quiet perhaps things might settle into equilibrium but I cannot seem to do this simple thing.

And so this is how all good things end.

---

## Interlude: Poison Apples, Poison Worms

### 11. Something Like Fiction

Start now. See what you remember. (*Do you remember anything?*)

*I don’t know.*

(Have you discarded everything you were again?)

I want to.

(Don’t.)

Why?

(…)

Try again.

I have forgotten too many things. I am dull once more. 

(Is your head empty.) 

My head is empty. I do not remember my heart. I am cradled beneath a blanket I refuse to wash. This is all I know. I will shed my skin again and be reborn.

(You’ll snap your neck trying to turn your head the right way.)

I don’t mind.

(…)

Again.

(Let me remind you. *Or have you forgotten you were once loved?*)

*Once* is such a cruel word. *But I will try and remember.* How it was— *how it is?* Or maybe this is too much for me to say and presume. This is how I am, isn’t it? *Too much.*

(How many times will you ask the same questions?)

I’m afraid of what happens when you stop answering.

(I’m sorry.)

You don’t need to be.

(…)

Once more.

(I will not ask, then. Let me tell you.)

---

### 12. Do You Know What Love Is

This title is inaccurate. *Do you know what it is to be loved?* Can you suspend your urge to interrupt that this is presuming too much? Let the word be meaningless; you know what it means to you and you know it does not mean what it always means. *You understand.*

Do you remember this thing? Like water, maybe. You’ve been fond of baths, always— if you sit for long enough the dead skin will slough right off, without needing to scratch yourself bloody. You should be careful not to keep your nails too sharp now. They’re brittle; *like you, they will break, perhaps?*

But love is like water to you, warmth seeping around you and making its way into every corner until you finally — *finally!* — stop shivering. Or perhaps thicker, like oil or tar or wet cement, keeping you grounded, fixed, nailing your head back into your body until it can no longer take flight. And this is how you like it. Maybe you dream of ropes. Silks, even, but you’d think these too kind. But as long as you can move, then you’ve got free will, and if you’ve got free will then you aren’t really free because your survival instinct is a violation of everything you beg for. So the ropes will never keep you sated because you will always be able to move too much. And you are strong, always have been, always you were told this—

Except you’re not, not really, your wrists are brittle and your knees are fragile and you’re nothing but hollow beneath an extended skeleton, *oh, you’re smaller than you look.*

But that’s love, isn’t it? Curling around you until your bones are pushed back into where they belong, until you are small again because you always have been and there’s no need to keep play-acting anymore. *That’s love, because you do not know how to retract yourself anymore.*

So maybe you crave this thing now, maybe you can’t sleep because there’s no-one or no-thing that can push you back into yourself, all you’ve got now are memories in a stolen blanket that you cocoon yourself in to keep away the cold. Your arms wrap around something that is no longer there, because at heart this is what you are: a child. But you yearn to be this again, to be held, to be enveloped and to be yourself for a few blissful hours.

You do not know how to be normal about this kind of thing. *You are fundamentally incorrect.*

---

### 13. What It Means To Have Death Know Your Name

You tell me love is like water; *and I agree*. Because love to me has always been the faint pressure on my lungs in the bathtub; stronger pressure accompanied by chlorine. Cotton binding me into myself as I tip over the edge and under again.

*Do you remember what it means to have death know our name?*

It’s an odd thing. Something of a victory— we’ve conquered the greatest fear of them all, perhaps. But it’s a thing that changes us, changes how the world looks. I cannot look at a window without thinking, *jump*. Or a knife without thinking of dragging it against my skin— *and how often, lately, have I done so?* Oh, but we’re clever, aren’t we? Cuts litter the places that aren’t seen, across the insides of our thighs and underneath our chest; but a few stray too far. Oh, they’ve seen the bandages— you’ve been silly with your excuses, haven’t you? You’re a damned poor liar, *who’d ever believe you?*

It’s not as if you can be honest, though. *Ever.*

It’s a good thing you’ve got some redeeming qualities (namely: a shelf full of skin-colored cosmetics). You’d hate to worry people. You don’t know how to cry for help. You’ve said you’d be honest if you ever needed anything and you’re a goddamn liar. *You need too many damn things to ask for any of them.*

So yes— love is like water, or thicker like blood. There is something that will love you no matter what terrible things you find in your heart; it’ll love you even if you find that you have no heart and no head. 

*I think it’s time you switch off your ugly head.* Stop pretending to be a person. Or turn the dial to its limit. Stop trying to be the thing you are. Masks sit better on mannequin-faces. And you’re oh-so good at sitting still and quiet, it’s what you’ve always wanted, right? Then let your skin be water; *is that sufficient for your love?*

---

### 14. Error, Anika, Error!

What a terrifying thing to write my own name on my work. I don’t like it, addressing myself as myself, or maybe this is because I do not call my own name.

But— dear, oh dear, what’s the underlying issue? One’s got to be too careful, operating in our head. We’re so fragile— the slightest thing might set us off? And we can’t stand being seen this way, but hate to ignore it either. So we’re confused because we deal in absolutes and this is anything but that?

Still, it comes down to this: we’re incapable of a certain degree of precise self-control and reason. But if we’re incapable of reason what’s the point in living? Might as well die like the piece of shit we are. We’re no better than an animal. Except for self-command; we can force ourselves to masquerade so long as there’s people involved. So long as it’s not for us.

---

## Act II:

### 15. Avalon is Boring (Without Table-talk)

Exactly what the title says. Have we resurrected to the point where I can stop being melancholy? It seems the new skin has formed and set. I have six days until I become an unthinking shell of myself for four months. It’s easier to think about foolish things than to feel anything at all. Aren’t I pretty like this?

But yes: Avalon. Without table-talk I am convinced it ceases to be a real game, assuming rational actors. Perhaps some innate knowledge about the players is helpful; so assume a random group. Then the minions proceed according to probably. I am inclined to think coordination is always less likely because it is more difficult. So when guessing the identity of the minions I will select the most probably options, which is numbers-wise likely the one with no coordination. So then it is purely based on quest-selection as to who is suspicious. There is no reasoning to be done, other than eliminating impossible configurations. The game is unenjoyable this way.

Table-talk is an oddity. It has a benefit: now you can attempt to read the reactions of the players, to determine based on mannerisms who is suspicious. But from a purely informational standpoint there should be no real difference. If everyone behaved rationally it would function like the silent version. But the table-talk seems to obstruct rationality in two ways. First is that players must control their language and expressions. But second is that players seem to get distracted. And they become irrational.

A common argument is “I know I am good”, or “It could also be this way”. But I think these are bad arguments. The first is bad because it does not contribute to the general discussion; this is not a piece of reasoning useful to anyone else because of course they cannot assume this. More useful is “from my perspective I must claim”, but perhaps I am nitpicking. Second is that while it is helpful to acknowledge all possibilities, if it is fundamentally less possible than the most probably argument I do not know how much it helps.

Ha: reader, I’ve deceived you! This is not a criticism of these strategies, but of myself. I play this game too much like it is silent and perfect and rational. And so I fail to understand the table-talk. Incidentally this is my table-talk strategy: aiming for rationality. It’s reasonably effective, I think.

---

### 16. Status Update

I don’t know how I feel or what to feel or what I should feel, only that I miss how things were and I do not know how I have wound up like this. More than ever I think I do not understand people.

First I tried to look for answer to ‘what kind of person do I want to be?’; but this was unsuccessful. Every answer that came to mind was ‘what will make people tolerate me’; so clearly I have failed in figuring out what I want to be for myself. Then when I tried to remove other people from the equation I concluded I never wanted to see another person again, which is also not correct.

Then I tried to revisit prior attempts at this question; for all the time I spend thinking about the future one might think I have an answer. But this yielded the realization that all projections of my future self are devoid of thoughts; it is only ever actions. Perhaps it’s a hope that my head will switch itself off by the time I reach the future, but I do not know. So this was also not helpful; I do not think I will actually stop thinking with such ease, and nothing I have imagined does anything to address this part of me.

After this I thought about love because it is an easier thing to process and something I have clearer thoughts on. Somehow it does not require me to solve myself. To quote myself (because I am terribly arrogant), I think I am a fool in the wrong kind of love, I have found myself so attached to a single person on a scale I have never been capable of before, and I can say nothing. I have created a new term— emotional fixation —just for this phenomenon.

But I have also thought about love in terms of how I receive it, and I worry that I want to be loved like a dog and not a human. Desperately.

And from all this I have reached the conclusion that I cannot ask this of someone; I cannot ask someone to tell me how they want me to be and obey; but I do not know what I am or want to be. The conclusion from this is that I should conclude myself. And now I am but a few steps away from where I nearly met my end once; I cannot help but want to try and meet it again.

---

### 17. In Which I Am Still A Fool in the Wrong Kind of Love

I think I am not built for this sort of thing, or really I have tried to un-build myself for this sort of thing but have since reversed this decision and am now ill-equipped to handle its consequences. But I can only feel all or nothing; and now I am overwhelmed— all the good and bad, all at once. Tides of memory cannot help but fill my dreams until I am drowning in them, drowning in—

No, I still can’t say it, even in the secrecy of my own writing. But really it is the fact that I know I cannot keep secrets from you; if I write it then you will one day see it. And I do not know if I can do this. Yet despite the flood of memories I still am overwhelmed by every fear magnified tenfold; I cannot walk in a crowd without seeing faces, cannot do anything without imagining—

I think I must give you a new term; all else that I have known is insufficient for you. For you; I’ll say it now, with all I can, for **you,** and I’m really quite sorry. I can stop. If you ask. You should ask. It’s better not to be the object of my intensities.

But if you’ll keep reading, then, here is what you mean to me.

*Emotional fixation* is the best term I can come up with and even this feels insufficient. How can I capture everything. I’m so selfish about this, too— maybe I fixate on you because it feels like I can only be myself when I am around you, when everything is quiet and still and the only light comes from those shitty fairy lights I had taped to my bed. When I do not have to perceive myself because there is only the room which is cold and you who are impossibly warm. And I have never felt so much like myself but I cannot keep asking you to do this for me, to resurrect the thing I once was and perhaps still am at cost of your time.

And yet I find myself fixated in a storm of thoughts— something like *I wish you would tell me how you want me to be* but also *I cannot demand such a thing of you* and *perhaps you would not like me very much if I wore even my most careful mask*. So I will not ask this thing of you but I still want you to know that what I really mean by this is *I would entrust you with my entirety if you wanted it*, but *who on earth would want such a thing?*

Consequently I have rethought love entirely; I have spent years waiting to find some girl I like, for whom I’d willingly shut the rest of myself away for— and I’d be happy, forever sealed into a single mask. I’d come to rest. But I had never entertained the idea that I could take the mask off— take them all off, and not be alone. And I have found that at my core I find love repulsive in so many ways and entirely unlike what I had expected in others. If you want concrete terms I’d refer you to *aroace* which is probably close enough but perhaps not entirely accurate. What I really want to say is something like *you are my friend* and *I trust you* and *I think I love you in a way I did not think I was capable of.* 

So yes— you’ve seen this line before, but perhaps I was just cleverer then. I think I am a fool in the wrong kind of love and I do not know what to do about this and maybe I should do nothing because I still do not know what I want. Or rather: I am happy as things are; you have been more to me than I could ever have hoped for. In some way I hope nothing will change. But also you could say that I am scared because I know that things will change in two years and also that I do not like hiding things from you and even if all of this is simply a difference of magnitude and not kind, I still want you to know this.

But instead I should really throw every record of this letter into the river and my heart with it. I cannot bear to feel things anymore. And perhaps I finally understand why I had tried to do so, tried so hard to lock away every feeling and emotion when I was younger. I worry that I was right.

~~Can I give you my heart and ask you to throw it away for me?~~

---

### 18. Sanity-Checked Back to Earth

Another attempt. What do I want to be. Other than dead.

The first issue is I come up with two answers, one entirely reliant on being away from people forever (I want to learn things and do things), and the other entirely reliant on being loved which does not leave time for the other.

Other drafts look like “I want to be happy” (which is too hollow), and “I will figure it out once I’m older” (which is unsatisfying). More interesting are “I want to be in a state such that a depressive episode won’t result in suicide” (which is still vague but more concrete), and “I want to take off my masks”.

But all of these seem to conflict— and I think my head’s a mess right now. Maybe that’s part of it. It feels like too much when all I’d like is a final goodbye before I go to sleep. I spent a lot of yesterday thinking about suicide notes. I worry that I’ve written mine to you. I’m scared. It’s too much to ask you for comfort, though. I can’t keep doing this. But would it be okay if I asked— really asked, with my own words, just once, for help?

No. No more. I must learn to do things myself without seeking constant assurances or I will never really want a thing for myself. I will allow myself to ask for input.

I think I have desperately wanted to understand things and to be understood. Perhaps a more interesting candidate is: I wish to be someone I can understand. Then this makes me an understandable person— thereby addressing the social aspects of what I want —and this also makes me a consistent and rational person which is what I desire to function. As for how to get there, I think I have much thinking to do. I must reframe my existing assumptions. I should stop fearing being wrong so long as I am reasonably justified.

---

### 19. My God The Diagnosis Was Right

I rather wish I had the sort of problem that could be solved by swallowing some pills from an orange bottle. Which is odd because I know that I cannot be trusted to maintain my own health. And yet.

I have found a framework but I do not have the answer to the question which will bring me assurance. The question being— *what principles make one a good friend?* But perhaps what is also bothersome is if I do everything correct on paper, yet still do not achieve the desired results, then what? Have I failed? Have I been wronged? Or something else entirely.

Is it odd to ask someone if they have changed.

Is it selfish to ask someone if they no longer think of me the same way. Is it selfish to assume someone thinks of me at all.

I have realized an answer I wish I had known a month ago. It is easier to assume everything is my fault because then perhaps I might be able to fix it. But if it’s out of my hands— if there is, truly, nothing I can do, if I have been wronged for no apparent reason — then. It can’t be fixed. And that is terrifying.

---

### 20. Exhibiting the Symptoms of Love

Why don’t we start of with some dramatics.

I despise you for the manner in which you have taken root in my brain like some parasite and cling to every neuron and fold; I resent you for having been good to me. You may be the worst mistake I’ve ever made. I think I wish I had never met you. But I have met you; at points perhaps I had even known you. And so it is of no use to resent what cannot be changed. You exist in my life, arguably for the worse, and I lack the courage to remove you from it.

Unfortunately, to quote the title, it appears that I am exhibiting the symptoms of love. I have written to you before, arguably far more lovingly, but now— now I do not want this. Now caring for you has become among the most tedious burdens I carry and I wish to end it or be rid of it. Clarity is my standard solution — and writing is already a dangerous act because I have found that in some way every word I write finds its way into your hands. But no matter, and if you’re reading this— well, initially I wanted to say something along the lines of *fuck you*, but I’ve decided not to.

That should be sufficient to deal with the frustration. But really I should clarify that it’s not you I’m frustrated with, but myself, or perhaps the idea of you which has persisted inside my head. I resent what you have become to me, through no fault of your own and entirely through my own. I’m… sorry.

Now on to the next emotion— or perhaps category is a better word. Speaking of better words: fixation. That is what you are, the next victim of my attentions and affections and fixations; I imagine it is not a pleasant thing to be. And yet I counteract my thoughts of you with thoughts of prior fixations so this must be what you are. You occupy too much of my focus; even my lungs and chest tense at your every action, you have brought back symptoms I did not know I could feel anymore.

Love’s a damn inconvenience for it.

And I’m playing a losing hand, I’m not so silly that I can’t tell how one-sided this is. Damn it all, I think I might love you and I really don’t want to. I’ve got no fancy words or beautiful prose for you now. There is nothing good about this.

So, what to do? I’m going to lie. I am going to craft a lie for you, carefully with time because I cannot do so spontaneously. I will give you a puzzle and if you solve it then you will know the truth but I am going to divert your attention elsewhere. I will give you false names and correct ideas. And if you spot the lie then perhaps you will properly dislike me even if you do not find the answer, and that may be good as well.

Good for the both of us. For the manner in which I have come to love you is a terrible and possessive thing, as if you’ve stepped into my magic circle, and perhaps this is quite an apt analogy because I find that I am like the fae in the way that I am with words. For the truth is my greatest weapon because I know how to twist it, all because I cannot lie. But also in that I will lie in wait for you because I am immortal in this way, I give you my constancy, things may occur and come and go but I will always be here waiting for you. I will pry your secrets from you with time— and perhaps when I know them all then I will find no reason to love you any further. But until that day comes, I will be here. And this is not a favor.

Perhaps the real favor comes from one of my (rare) principles, that I dislike problems of information so much that I will willingly risk my interests to resolve them. I have told Victoria that she may spill my secrets as she wishes, if she feels it is right. But I also find that I will not let my interests interfere in my advice, that it is of immense importance that I can provide counsel untainted. Perhaps this is in service of constancy, to know that you will always turn back to me if you know that I cannot be dishonest in this manner. Regardless. Even if it goes entirely against my interests, if you seek my advice I will tell you what is correct. By which I mean I love you and yet this will change nothing insofar as my interactions with you.

From you perhaps I have learned my definition of love; or rather I have learned that love and fixation were always the same. That love requires something like fascination and care. I think I may never be happy in this regard, but no matter.

This is a letter I hope I never send you, in part because it is poor prose on my part, and in part because I will regret it. Instead I will spin a lie for you, and trust that you are clever enough to unravel it.

I wonder if you also regret coming to know me in the first place. *I hope you do.*

---

### 21. Stranger Strangers

I imagine it will be a terribly odd thing if I meet you again. I do not think you imagine me at all.

Perhaps you will remember me in bits and pieces— crooked smiles and pigtails that I would unravel and retie, jumpers when the rest of the class had moved on to polo shirts and pleated skirts, line-stealing because I did not know better— because I thought you had *forgotten so of course I had to speak your line.* More vividly your refusal to change in the same room as me, your reasons which I accepted wordlessly, and then one-and-a-half years later a promise that I would *try my best* without understanding *what I was trying to do.* Or perhaps you remember me for what I was: fundamentally uninteresting. You knew this then.

In some sense you were everything I wanted if I knew how to want. If I was uninteresting then you were interesting— *properly interesting.* This is what I knew you as: you arrived five years late and stayed two years too long. You were everyone’s darling within two weeks. You wore platform-heel sneakers despite being taller than everyone else and carried a bag so impractical for school that it could not even fit your laptop. You dip-dyed your hair using red Kool-aid and lemon juice and tried to make ice-cream in plastic bags with salt until I mistakenly threw them over the hedge. You lived on top of a hill and had two bedrooms and two closets and you were an only child. You were living every eleven-year-old’s dream and you were unhappy, I think. Your birthday was in June which made you older than me and you were obsessed with things meant for people twice your age and. You fundamentally changed me.

You, the source of half my obsessions— and the trigger for the other half seemed fascinated with you. I say all this not to denote that I was envious. I would not have known how to be those things then. Instead I stepped into your shadow and stood by your side because this was all I knew to do. I did not envy you— but I knew you were beloved and wanted this, too. Perhaps some part of me knew that all I was was hollow and empty. So I learned.

Perhaps I was uninteresting enough that you did not spot the change, or perhaps I did not matter much to you at all. I don’t mind. But the curious thing is that I was a mimic; and so on the day I thought I would never see you again I memorized your face and placed it upon my own. I wore your face like some piece of venetian craftwork for a year-and-a-half and then it began to sink into my own and dissolve until I could no longer distinguish what had been me and what had been you. Your obsessions became mine, your thoughts, mine, your tastes, mine.

And so this is why I say it will be odd if we meet again. I wonder if this is sufficient to make me interesting now, or if you are still so discerning in your judgement. Perhaps you have caught the barest flashes of my life. But it’s an oddity that we seem to have converged naturally, even in the manner I did not intend. The curve of your cheek is closer to mine now. You might find a second home in my wardrobe. The color you apply to your eyelids matches my favorite lip tint. Your studies are adjacent to mine. 

Of course I would not say any such things, in part because I am bound by social convention and in part because I know that you are aware of none of the events on my side.

But I long to ask you if you can spot the change.

I can. All too clear and all too well, you taught me something terrible that I could never forget. Maybe you taught me selfishness or something like it. More likely you taught me something like *substance,* and I’m sorry to say that I’ve since unlearned this lesson. In recent months I’ve returned to what I was before I had met you and I am better-worse for it. If I meet you again will I learn how to steal your face once more?

It’s strange, though. The face I wore before you, everything I was then— *wasn’t I much better than you?* But then again I have never understood my tastes and only known them to be often misguided. 

I wonder if you were an error on my part. But I think that maybe you’ll understand when I say that from you I learned a type of fluidity that I did not know I could have, and that maybe that isn’t such a terrible thing so long as I do so for my own satisfaction.

Still. I don’t plan on saying anything of this manner. If I ever find myself in Providence, and if someone is kind enough to bring me to you, I’ll wear my very best face and see if I’ve beaten you.

---

### 22. Until the Candle Goes Out

Ordinarily I reserve writing for when I know in some way what to say, but it seems I have some things I ought to work out. Let us start with the known.

I think I am happy. Or happier. Relieved is more accurate. There is a weight off my shoulders. In disrupting normalcy I have brought it back. You are nice to me and I do not know why but I am glad for it. I spoke with Vic and arrived at some idea of myself. I am unnerved by my dreams which I do not understand. I am less unnerved by the memory loss. I should sleep more.

Here is what I do not know. Or did not expect. I did not expect you to ask if I even wanted a ‘yes’. I have forbidden myself from wanting so I cannot say that is what I want even if I know it is. These rules are odd. Forbidding myself from wanting is troublesome. I cannot picture what I want; I stop myself. But then I cannot draw conclusions from my feelings. This is not my usual rule. I do not know why I have this rule here. Guilt? It feels wrong to want somehow. Maybe as I have said — you have been good to me and it feels severely wrong to want anything more. *I hate wanting. I can’t stand it.*

But the trouble is that if I cannot understand why I want, it is difficult to determine if it is a difference of degree or kind. I do believe that however I feel is not generalizable (even if other things may be). More so this is a function of the things I find repulsive which are standard to other ideas of love. Maybe it is that ‘the feelings of love are differentiated by degree and not kind’ but also that ‘the person I am capable of loving in this manner is a different kind of person’?

You did ask a question I thought you would ask but knew I could not answer properly. I try not to let myself think— actively, that is —too hard about the things I like about you? I’ve said it already: I do not like wanting things. This reminds me too much that there are things I want even while being satisfied with what I have. Still. The two categories were “things about you” and “things related to the experience of being around you”. I guess you might classify the first as “why I might look up to you”; that’s a category that exists in how I feel about many people. There are people who I enjoy as they are and yet do not possess as great “desire for closeness” or “enjoy the company of” as much. So that is the “normal” category.

In that category I would summarize it as. You seem to try and be an understandable person even if I do not understand the rules and principles you have chosen? Perhaps “you are consistent” or “make sense”? And also your. Mechanism? For correcting things is interesting. I suppose I want to say that “I wish more people functioned the way you did”? And you seem to care about things and think about things. Which is a common trait I appreciate in people. I wonder what is important to me in people. You know I shy away from asking how things should be. This is because I do not know that I am correct. So I can say “I think it may be nice if people were this way”? Monitoring the degree of my “should” statements is important. Maybe I’m just pedantic but. It matters to me?

You could also consider it as “this is a flavor of person I think is good”, which does not constitute a statement on how other people are. I think the intersection of different traits is also important. Something like— there are traits I possess that, say, I would not wish upon you because it would not work for what you are. And the reverse. This may have been what I meant when talking about looking up to people. I don’t know what effect adding a trait might have on my whole system; I must be cautious.

I don’t think I said it before. I guess I do look up to you. Hopefully not physically. I would like to think I am taller. I will keep wearing tall shoes to help with this. But I guess you could say that “you seem to know how to operate your own mind” is how I think of you and I wish I knew how to do something like that? And I probably do think inordinately highly of you because of that. Though you are not the only person I think of this highly. I think my friend Matthew comes to mind as someone I think of very highly, for entirely different reasons. Kate and Vic come to mind for a certain aspect of them. Something like “they seem good with uncertainty and still believing things” while remaining gentle somehow.

Then I also think highly of people who have changed. Among them: Daniella. Karen. My dad. But this is something like— I can see the seams and imperfections in their methods and I adore them more for this? I can see them falter and so I know they are trying and that it does not come easily to them. Perhaps I just do not know you well enough to see if this occurs for you; and yet I want to say something like “even when you are wrong you never seem to be wrong”? I think this perhaps unnerves me slightly. Yet simultaneously I find it utterly fascinating.

There’s another reason — I find you interesting. That’s sort of an in-between the two categories. I think of it as: everyone is interesting, but I have finite attention and time. So I want to unravel the most complicated and interesting puzzles. You do not seem to follow the social rules I am used to people following. This and the prior things I have mentioned make you fascinating. Fascination is sort of like a subset of fixation, I think? Or fascination implies fixation.

I think I am only capable of loving people whom I become fixated with. That was another lesson I learned.

The second category of “things related to the experience of being around you” is more straightforward. Fascination or fixation I think explains my near-constant want to have you around. I think I have been this way with Kieran as well, which supports this conclusion I suppose. Added to that is also that “you do not mind talking about Things”; sometimes I worry about ruining people’s fun with conversational topics that are less “entertaining”. I don’t think I worry about this with you. Maybe I could phrase this as “capacities related to me that you happen to possess”. The capacity to be tolerable. You also happen to be very good at making me feel better, which I am told is not an easy thing. “The way in which you interact is very user-friendly for me”, or something like that. Then added to this are some random boxes you happen to check that just make your presence reassuring. I believe I mentioned “it would be difficult for you to physically harm me.” Also the reverse of “it would be difficult for me to physically harm you.” And you have said things along the lines of (you would not do something if you did not want to) and so I have some trust that I am not unnecessarily keeping you captive.

You may be the only person who asks me regularly how I am. Something like “you do not forget I exist” and also that “if I happen to be a bit out of it, since usually with other friends I find myself initiating every interactions, you may actually start a conversation anyways”. I trust that you actively wish to be friends with me, maybe? I think that’s what broke me a bit in May. The idea someone would be around me to such an extreme seemed impossible.

Then there is the category of “more superficial conveniences”, which is sort of like a category of “things which are pleasant but I would not go out of my way for”. This is something like “you give good hugs” and “you can cook things” and “you are helpful when I am attempting the crossword”. Probably you could rephrase it as “this is a category which makes it a bit easier for me to do things with you”, but also doing things which are fun is not necessarily my priority in deciding people whom I like more than I should.

So now that I have elaborated a bit on that. There is the matter of what I wanted to say the other day. The effect of what I want to say is something like “as you think about things or figure things out please do not consider me” or “this is not capable of impacting me negatively”. There are no consequences relating specifically to me. I think I may be doing the thing where I step out of my own thoughts to try and be objective or something. Anyways. Consequentially the only thing I properly want in this situation is for you to reach an outcome you are satisfied with, which I think I understand to be “more certainty than 75%”.

How I arrived at that state is a slight bit more complex. In my note I said that I would return to a normal state of feeling. Usually I tell people this is an “off switch” or “delete feelings button”. It’s more of a deactivation switch? The feelings go into a conveniently labeled box and cease to be active. But they still exist and I can access them? More importantly I can peruse them and understand their contents — I don’t just forget the state of feeling. You could say it’s something like “I will continue to possess the capacity to like you in this way, but the idea itself is no longer active”. Thanks, Locke and Leibniz.

And I am certain of this function because I have done this before. Both in the “at some later point someone actually decided they liked me so I opened the box and brought it back out” and the “someone definitively did not feel this way so the box remains in storage”. I want to say something like “I am glad I function this way”?

In your case since you were kind enough to lend me a few hours of conversation immediately after, the process of putting things in a box was much easier. So in fact I am now in a ‘normal feeling state’. It is now just a capacity. If you have questions I am capable of answering them despite not necessarily actively feeling the feelings?

Anyways. I think these were the points of clarification.

For fun, I’d like to end with [a song](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LBdtUewmDr0&list=RDLBdtUewmDr0&start_radio=1&rv=CxBdwv1bf48) stuck in my head. In some way I think it’s not a bad reference for the manner in which I feel. A bit melancholy? Something like “there are things I want but I expect nothing”; anyways, pulling from the best translation I could find:

> *My voice breaks and words flutter in the wind
So close to happiness, I want to cry
Kiss me good-bye
Your last words make me cry*
> 
> 
> 
> *Until the candle goes out*
> 
> *Until the tears run dry*
> 
> *I'll always be by your side*
> 
> *Wishing you would see me*
> 
> *The more I completely fall to pieces
> The more I am completely broken
> I'll always be here
> Wanting to gaze at you*
> 

Atsushi Sakurai is probably expressing want more than I would. The first stanza is sort of just “I have the odd want to cry but it’s not bad by any means”, and also that in a way I’m a bit wordless at the moment? The things I want to say break just a bit. 

But I think what is more accurate to my state of mind is the third lines of the second and third stanzas. Constancy. What I mean is something like “I want things” and yet regardless of if I “get what I want” or not, I will be here in the same degree as before. Largely in part because you are a very dear friend to me. But also I think this is part of what I mean when I love people; reciprocation aside I will always be there. This is important to me I think; the reason feels adjacent to the idea that “being able to step out of my thoughts and be objective” is important to me. It’s odd. These are some of my most important principles? And yet I don’t really judge people who cannot do this. I wonder if my framework is constructed entirely in terms of “things I might wish for” and “trying to understand why those things may not occur”.

The wishing/wanting lines are nice too. I think I like that they’re softer than a lot of other wish/want lines in songs. Just something simple. Sort of like “just wanting to be around you” and perhaps “wishing you might also want to be around me in some capacity”.

Anyways. If you have questions. Or if you don’t. Regardless. *I’ll always be here.*

---

### 23. Balancing and Unbalancing

I am once again in an erratic state, eerily similar to that of May 7th, 2025. But also I think I am marginally better equipped to handle it now. I am noticing that this entire ‘journal’ could be read, with one exception, as letters to you, which I find frankly horrifying.

So let’s start with that. It has been established I hate wanting things. I do not think I have impressed the degree of this upon you. I despite it, I loathe it, with every ounce of vitriol I am capable of producing. None of this has anything to do with you, specifically. So this is troublesome because I become worse when I am angry. A measure of erratic-ness has been introduced into me that was not previously there. And yet— how I feel and how I want to be are different things. I think I have, on Thursday, acted how I really want to be. More measured and straightforward. Perhaps a bit more nervous than I like to be. Regardless.

So now it’s a realization that it’s harder than I thought to maintain what I want to be. I must ask if the thing I want to be is a mask or truth? I feel much better in that state so I assume it to be true. But then why is it so difficult for me to maintain? Or is that just how I’ve socially conditioned myself? Maybe I should take a lesson from May and try and relax the facades. I can still have fun. But it’s okay to not say anything. I’m scared to lose people that way, though, or to make them think I do not care for them. I should probably communicate this fact.

What unnerves me terribly is that on Sunday I seemed to relapse so easily into the thing I once was. Have I learned nothing? This scares me indescribably.

Naturally this led to the usual— *just die, you worthless idiot.* I think for now I’ll let arrogance dictate the win here; *you can kill yourself after you accomplish something for once in your pathetic life.* I’m not usually this straightforward about this sort of thing, how odd. Conveniently the nightmares of late (which, I think, have temporarily vanished) might give me a plausible insomnia claim. Or the remnants of my wisdom tooth surgery. I’m too pain averse for much else. And I’m a damn awful liar— *could you see how stilted my answer was yesterday?*

The pattern I am enjoying is honesty. Somehow I can’t answer I direct question incorrectly. I care about this, I think. How odd. I think it’s less to do with “authenticity” and more to do with “making myself knowable”. Leaving breadcrumbs to myself and such.

Anyways. I feel atrocious. And yet I’m glad for how I’ve handled things externally. Maybe the point of the faces I wear is for myself, to mold myself into the thing I want to be. Separately, though, I’ve now got the new anxiety of something stupid like *I might never find love in a satisfactory form*. I don’t know why that scares me. I think I am quite satisfied knowing you claim to care about me to a degree comparable to the degree in which I care about you, even if i doubt if this is actually accurate. It’s the sentiment that means something. I think it’s because I know it won’t last. Maybe my mother has gotten into my head. I think you will find someone you like one day and I will be happy for you because you are my friend. And yet I know what that means in terms of time and attention and care. You could say that when I say *I like you* it doesn’t even mean that I want *more* but rather a promise that the current state will last. 

And I don’t know if I believe I’ll have another friendship like this. It’s possible, I suppose. Clearly a lot can happen in, well, a year. How strange that is. But I cannot say I have met anyone like you before. So I am not optimistic, but oh well. The point is I suppose that maybe it’s less that I *want* and more that I am afraid. How cruel of me. I will never voice this thought to you. Another thing I cannot bear to do is lay claim to what people will do.

These aren’t the rules I always play by. But I have defined a set of rules specific to everyone, and this is the set you have received. They are markedly distinct from my usual rules. *Horrifying*.

I think I may have been correct when, in anger, I wrote that I wish I had never met you. I would rather have not known something extraordinary knowing it would never last. This is true in terms of how I feel. I’m sorry.

But the rational parts of me do believe that this has been in some way good for my mind and my thoughts. You have forced me to think. I am likely more miserable for it, but the rationality in me cares less for that consequence. So it’s not all bad. It just hurts. I hope I will one day be strong enough to get over the things that hurt. But right now I think I am like a child with how I feel; they’ve only recently returned to me. So it’s all quite overwhelming and difficult to ignore.

So I guess I am once again in conflict between shallow happiness and rational discomfort. And— *how odd*! Because I have known this thing for so long, have written on it at length. Perhaps that is my central theme. It’s pleasing to know that the narrative has foreshadowed my grand conflict. I ought to continue that draft. The downside is that if I believe the narrative, then I know my answers are either: dissatisfaction, or death. Is the last one so bad an option, a controlled sort of thing? I think it would not be appropriate of me to ask you to dissuade me. As curious as I am to ask.

There’s also the realization that love is such an oddly rational thing for me, in a way that I didn’t previously realize. Previously I assumed the wrong sort of rationality. Perhaps functionality is a better term. But this is not how it is for you; I cannot persuade you with arguments of optimization. Instinctively I judge the outcome by my own standards, that I am sub-optimal and have failed. I know this is a wrong interpretation. Still, I suppose, I feel it nonetheless. How irritating. At least I have inadvertently received the surprisingly much-needed reassurance that you do not Perceive Me (visually). Just something to ease my mind.

On the more practical front I would like to enter the next stage of grief with regards to my future. Acceptance. Oddly enough this whole ordeal has led me to understand what it is I want and like. Among these: I enjoy and desire information. I am not particular about this, so I can find something I like anywhere if I look with a kind enough gaze. I’d like to stop being so negative. I can politely critique the culture I will find myself in. But no longer so harshly. I accept I cannot be what I want. I need not be miserable in settling. And I would like to please my family, after all I have done to them. I owe them this.

There’s an interesting thinking-feeling distinction I have observed. I collect reassurances and bottle them to remind myself I am not the worst. And yet— I can’t fully believe them? I don’t know how much they actually do? An exchange from May involved: *you have not been a burden / I guess I still feel like one anyways*. From last night: *I wouldn’t describe it as me having to put up with anything / somehow I still want to apologize.* I don’t know what this is; an indicator of discrepancy between what I want and think compared to how I feel? This is about as much clear communication as I could ask for. And in your case I almost believe you? Yet my feelings do not respond, somehow. Perhaps I ought to take a lesson from myself on complexity— *sometimes there isn’t anything better you could’ve done about it, it’s just unfortunate*. Maybe this just *is*. But it feels like such a recurring issue that I have trouble accepting that.

Habits are a bit odd — something like echoes of prior variants of myself that it’s easy to fall into if I don’t think about it? This bothers me.

Additionally I have realized that I like being alone when I am happy. But then when this happens I neglect the other good things in my life. I should find balance there, too. I don’t know if I can. But I must try.

So, let us see once again if I can change. I think an important framework to note is this: many of my present behavior stem from course-correcting my prior state. I think this was the right decision when my single goal was righting my wrongs and understanding the rhythms of being a better person. This cannot be a permanent result, however. It’s about time I examine how to find balance.

---

### 23. In Which Nothing Has Changed, Except For Everything

When it comes to feelings, I cannot help but feel terribly similarly to how I did as my second year came to a close. Horrendous uncertainty, afraid like never before, full of words begging to spill out of me with no one to whisper them to. Wanting something I could not have.

And yet to say that I have not progressed since then would be a lie of immense proportions. I have progressed. Have I changed? I don’t know. But I have come to accept some things and construct some things— perhaps it would be accurate to say that I finally feel like a person. And all this would be wonderful, if not for the fact that my feelings have not changed. It’s not enough to keep me alive.

But let me spend a moment on the good things. I find that I rarely do so nowadays. I have decided to shed my facades except for the most practical reasons. I have resolved towards optimism with respect to my future career options. I have begun to disperse the burden of knowing me— I have begun to come to know a greater array of friends in greater depth. And I have discovered the sort of person I want to be. I have found that I care about things like honesty and consistency; that I make promises and stick to them. I enjoy information and observing. I know what it means for me to love. I have started to act more how I want to.

And I am aware. I cannot decide if this is good or bad. From the perspective of being an ‘ideal human’ it is good; and for so long I have believed in rationality and intellection that I must believe this to be good. And yet I find that I am miserable for it. Worse, that *you* have taken my superficial happiness from me. I hate you for it. Still I like you more than I should. How can you do such a thing?

But I let you, didn’t I? Answered all your questions, begged you to ask more, wanted so desperately for you to know me that I had completely disregarded the fact that I have been terrified to know myself.

Here’s an oddity — the haze of uncertainty and fear seems to vanish around you somehow, becomes something like anticipation? Stability? Something like *the world is quiet here*. This is dangerous, too. I have known already how it feels to become addicted to someone’s presence and it is not a good thing at all. I don’t understand how this has occurred, somehow. I find myself irritated once again.

It is perhaps a small consolation that in my efforts of betterment, I have heard the answer to a question I know you want to ask, and I cannot share this answer with you. Is this a victory? Hardly. And I don’t want things to be win-loss with regards to you. My habits betray my thoughts and wants once more.

I find myself perpetually amazed by your ability to entirely stop me in my tracks with a handful of simple words. In my mind currently: *don’t do anything you don’t want to* and *experience more things.* How odd. I don’t know how to perceive them. Concerned, caring almost? It felt as if for a moment you had seen right through me. It scared me. Of course it did— for when it comes to you I know what I fear. I know that one day you will discover something in me that you dislike, and you will no longer wish to be friends with me. And I accept this because I refuse to dictate how other people should act, and yet it hurts regardless. It’s not wrong. But it’s still sad.

To your credit, I thought this day had come in May. It hadn’t. I didn’t expect that.

What has changed is that I am no longer afraid to be a person you dislike. Perhaps something like pride has returned. Or, more likely, anger. For I despise how you have become so central to my thoughts that I cannot seem to escape you. My remaining friends undoubtedly are sick of you as a subject of conversation. I can’t stand thinking about you.

But let me set that aside, because there is something worse in my head than you.

You asked me a question I have been avoiding speaking out loud. You have forced me to admit something terrible. I have no reason to live. Now that I have spoken this thing aloud I cannot deny it anymore. You have denied me my last refuge of deception within myself. I do not— cannot —fault you, and yet.

The truth remains. My hopes lie on diagnoses, that some doctor will be able to take a scan of my brain and prescribe me a pill that will allow me to like things enough to stay alive. I don’t think I’m so different from everyone else that I cannot understand their reasons to live. I think they just aren’t enough to win against my will for nonexistence.

So: here is the position I find myself in. I have no choice but to look for an answer because I have been denied my last bits of ignorance. I am at least better equipped to be the sort of person I wish to be; but the greater hill to climb is whether I wish to be a person at all. I am apparently capable of love and will likely never be satisfied in that regard. I will keep trying because I have no choice. I have eight years before time runs out and I might actually give up.

*Wish me luck?*

---
This is the sort of thing that belongs in my journal, but in the spirit of straightforwardness and openness I no longer care whether this is kept personal or not.

Consider this a reflection on two things: what I am, and what I am not.

Let us start with what I am. Dramatic, surely. The things I know myself to be are not all translatable into words. But what comes to mind: regimented. I have a set of rules and standards to which I hold myself to and judge myself by. I like to understand the world in terms of rules; if you ask me about friendship I will reply with what are your social rules. I do not handle change well and yet I care deeply about being a person who is capable of change. I happen to have a terribly dry sense of humor. I fixate on people. I obsess privately over the things which fascinate me. I adore my friends deeply. I am not particularly expressive. I do not understand many things. I would like to understand everything even though I think this is impossible. I wish to be known— but perhaps I no longer think I need it.

I believe in straightforwardness and openness; I have an idea of the person I wish to be. I do not always succeed in acting in accordance with my own rules, but I know my rules and believe them. I enjoy being alone sometimes. I take pleasure in the flourishes in life. I am distinctly my own thing; I will change according to my own wants.

Rather obviously this is a non-exhaustive list. From these I would like to dedicate some attention to the material and physical. These are: how I appear and present myself. I take pleasure in the flourishes in life translates to something like: I enjoy the texture of certain movements and appearances. This is not a very good translation. Perhaps it is better by example. I dress up on the days where I lock myself in my room. My shelves are neat even when I have no guests over. I apply sunscreen on the days where I don’t go out. I take care to walk in a specific manner even when unaccompanied. This is the texture of life to me; I enjoy habits and movements. The sweeping pivot of a bow, the controlled twirl of my fingers in a wave, the sensation of being clothed in a coherent outfit— this is pleasure for me.

Beyond that, this is the sort of person I am. This is the correct texture of what I am, perhaps. I do these things because they satisfy me.

There are other physical details to what I am. My default expression happens to look rather irritated. I tend to over-enunciate my words. Some attempts at honesty have led my tone to become more clipped. I do not know quite what to say other than: I find that I am of a texture which is at times terribly precise, and utterly languorous at others. Some superposition of these things results in the nature of what I am.

And I do not think it is in a contradictory manner, but rather some jagged or puzzle-like edge has formed between the two; they have intertwined with each other in a manner which I can distinctively identify as my own. There is a sort of thing I am, is what I want to say. I think this is the thing which best characterizes me; this sort of texture. That same texture allows me to say that I am simultaneously short-tempered and unbothered; what this really means is that I have done a poor job of translating my traits into words and instead rely on an internal non-verbal idea of myself.

I think I am writing myself as a sharper thing than I really am today. I am in an arrogant mood.

Softer and more gentle is the persistent reminder that I think I am capable of great depths of care and adoration. It’s as simple as— if I come to care for you, I’ll always be there. You could say something like I do not fall out of love; love here being platonic and not romantic. The closest thing to this is more like I lack object permanence; if I do not see or interact with someone often enough I can forget they exist. (The most notable victim of this being my parents; I am guilty of forgetting about them for entire months.) It’s not out of any dislike or malice. I think I am just like this.

(My mother and I have since come to an understanding; apparently she discovered this is a common trait with autism. I do not know if that is true or not.)

But I find that if someone returns into my life, into my field of perception, that my affections haven’t faded. It’s as if someone hit pause, and then, unpause. Perhaps this makes the concept of friends drifting difficult for me to understand. Of course, there are many things I understand; just because I do not function in this manner does not mean I think it is wrong.

I think I have come to realize that there is really only one way to hurt me, and that is loneliness. Or rather, all the painful things are just some flavor of being lonely. Everything comes back to this: the one thing that hurts that I cannot fix on my own. It is, I think by nature, rather reliant on other people. I dislike things I cannot handle myself.

I dislike many things. I think in particular, the things which feel meaningless. Compliments and apologies come to mind. I like the former when they are specific; general or “blanket” compliments tend to make me uncomfortable. I think I have never been good at receiving apologies. I never know what to say— I don’t want people to think they have to tread on eggshells around me. But I’ve thought through “components of a good apology” already; I think nowadays anything that covers that is fine. Yet it still feels strange.

Perhaps part of me takes some offence at apologies; how can you think you are capable of hurting me? I’m stronger than I look.

This has been on my mind lately. I’m stronger than I look. Or rather I have the tolerance of a fucking saint. I am feeling arrogant.

But really it’s more like a lesson in what I am not. I have said I am not naturally expressive. Let me start from inside: here is how I feel things.

Unintentional hurt is an interesting one. The kind of thing that doesn’t bother me rationally but still can register as pain, maybe. Something occurs; in the moment it doesn’t register, I keep moving as I am. Then I return to myself later; I recount the events and decide something like— there exists a person who would be bothered by this. Then I dole out the appropriate amount of feeling hurt; I take myself through the thoughts of being bothered by this, then then I return to normal.

I suppose it’s functional in the sense of — on rare occasion I determine I am the sort of person who is bothered by this and decide to act from there. If I was bothered by nothing I think that might be bad for my self-respect. And yet it feels like a mimicry of actual emotion.

I am like this when I am sad, too. Sad is really just lonely; then sometimes I think that this is what sadness appears as; I configure my movements and gestures and habits into some attempt to convey this emotion. I think it wouldn’t mean much if I just said I am sad and then continued to act as normal. I think I don’t give people enough of a chance.

But these are the things I am not; I do not feel things in a manner which lends itself to expression; my face contorts itself into years of learned habits instead. I practice expressions in the mirror when I’m really bored. I like watching people’s faces sometimes. I used to keep a notebook of how to be around specific people which my parents rather embarrassingly found in seventh grade. My casual conversations are filled with mannerisms and phrases stolen from other friends; I repeat jokes that I don’t always understand but have fallen into a habit of laughing at.

This is different from playing characters; it’s not as if this is contradictory to what I am. But rather this is an axis I do not exist on and so this is my crude attempt at projecting myself onto it.

It’s not to say that everything I am socially is pretend or distortion; but rather there are aspects which are, and this is where they came from. I think I might not be enough of a person if I did not do this, whatever that means. I want to say I feel hollow, I feel like my glass-eyed dolls but I think this is not quite right because I am certain I am Something. Perhaps instead: I am a conscious thing and I am a shell but also these two things are disjoint.

I want to make everyone happy. I want to be loved by everyone. I give my heart away carelessly and will continue to do so because I am the sort of person who can tolerate these things. I cannot really be hurt, so I’ll put up with anything. I can deal with anything.

I think I am not a vulnerable person, really. I’ve thought about it. Wondered if I ought to let down my armor or something of that sort. But I think there doesn’t exist a weaker, fragile version of me. I am this steel-plated thing. Emotional vulnerability doesn’t exist to me because telling people how I feel isn’t exposing a weakness to me. Perhaps this comes back to— I am a person who wishes to be known, so being discovered isn’t a danger at all.

I wonder if this is why I struggle with something like human connection a bit; it feels as though when people tell me things, they are trusting me with some great secret, some treasured part of themselves. But I can give no such treasures because nothing of me is hidden away like gold. I give my nature freely because that is what I am; but then I feel like I have given up nothing at all.

I do cry when I’m upset. One of these is more of a physical reaction that comes with anger and is exclusively triggered by family arguments and stress. The other is more empty and hollow. My breathing doesn’t stagger and lurch there; it’s just a few quiet tears while I stare at a point on a wall that dry without much fuss. I used to hate the idea of crying around other people. I’ve since changed my mind; not that I think it’ll be a frequent occurrence.

I think the only real ways I can be vulnerable are this: expressing what I want. I hate wanting; I despise it. I dislike things I cannot satisfy myself, as I have said. I do not want to put people in a position where they feel obligated to fulfill my requests. The following idea is immensely important to me: doing things because you want to, not because you feel like you have to.

If I was capable of a slightly more straightforward form of vulnerability I would say: I want to show people my unarmed state by choice, not because I have had my armor broken and I am defeated. It comes up in casual interaction too, though. A simple example: I cook for my friends because I want to. I don’t want them to cook for me because they feel like they owe me. Invite me over for a meal if you want my company, not just to return the favor.

This isn’t all to say that I am incapable of being unarmored at all. There’s a single exception: physically. Maybe it’s my weak point. I think all the emotional effort I might otherwise pour into mental or emotional vulnerability has gone to physical. There’s a very strict and specific touch boundary I hold in my head. Letting people past that is perhaps the only ‘treasure’ I have to give. Incidentally touch is also a convenient way to short-circuit several of my thoughts and happens to constitute a large portion of my coping mechanisms.

I think I find it overstimulating and overwhelming, but in a manner which is pleasant. Perhaps because it’s the antidote to loneliness.

This whole thing isn’t really directed at anyone other than myself, even if certain conversations I’ve had have perhaps reminded me to give these things some thought.

There exists a me which is both open and closed off; maybe I can be known but not understood and maybe I’ve always craved the latter. I don’t know.

But at least there are some things I know. I am the world’s greatest mimic and I do not think I care to be it anymore. There are things I do just to prove that I can. I really can’t be hurt, in a way.

I am a creature of habit so my habits will take time to peel away. I’m not so scared now, that I might find nothing pleasant under. I no longer care to let the things I am afraid of dictate my actions. I think I am confident in what I am trying to become.

Or at least, I’m going to keep trying my best.
